site/docs-md/apis/status-bar/index.md, before:

<plugin-platforms platforms="ios,android"></plugin-platforms>

# Status Bar

The StatusBar API Provides methods for configuring the style of the Status Bar, along with showing or hiding it.

<plugin-api index="true" name="status-bar"></plugin-api>

## iOS Note

This plugin requires "View controller-based status bar appearance" (`UIViewControllerBasedStatusBarAppearance`) set to `YES` in `Info.plist`. Read about [Configuring iOS](../ios/configuration) for help.

## Events

* statusTap

## Example

```typescript
// Events (iOS only)
window.addEventListener('statusTap', function () {
  console.log("statusbar tapped");
});

//API
import {
  Plugins,
  StatusBarStyle,
} from '@capacitor/core';

const { StatusBar } = Plugins;

export class StatusBarExample {
  isStatusBarLight = true

  changeStatusBar() {
    StatusBar.setStyle({
      style: this.isStatusBarLight ? StatusBarStyle.Dark : StatusBarStyle.Light
    }, () => {});
    this.isStatusBarLight = !this.isStatusBarLight;
  }

  hideStatusBar() {
    StatusBar.hide();
  }

  showStatusBar() {
    StatusBar.show();
  }
}
```

## API

<plugin-api name="status-bar"></plugin-api>

Commit message:

feat(statusBar): set default ios status bar options based on plist (#911)
* feat(statusBar): set default ios status bar options based on plist

* refactor(statusBarDefault): use Bundle.main.infoDictionary

* docs(statusbar): add status bar default override info

* docs(statusbar): tweak wording

site/docs-md/apis/status-bar/index.md, after:

<plugin-platforms platforms="ios,android"></plugin-platforms>

# Status Bar

The StatusBar API Provides methods for configuring the style of the Status Bar, along with showing or hiding it.

<plugin-api index="true" name="status-bar"></plugin-api>

## iOS Note

This plugin requires "View controller-based status bar appearance" (`UIViewControllerBasedStatusBarAppearance`) set to `YES` in `Info.plist`. Read about [Configuring iOS](../ios/configuration) for help.

The status bar visibility defaults to visible and the style defaults to `StatusBarStyle.Light`. You can change these defaults by adding `UIStatusBarHidden` and or `UIStatusBarStyle` in the `Info.plist`.

## Events

* statusTap

## Example

```typescript
// Events (iOS only)
window.addEventListener('statusTap', function () {
  console.log("statusbar tapped");
});

//API
import {
  Plugins,
  StatusBarStyle,
} from '@capacitor/core';

const { StatusBar } = Plugins;

export class StatusBarExample {
  isStatusBarLight = true

  changeStatusBar() {
    StatusBar.setStyle({
      style: this.isStatusBarLight ? StatusBarStyle.Dark : StatusBarStyle.Light
    }, () => {});
    this.isStatusBarLight = !this.isStatusBarLight;
  }

  hideStatusBar() {
    StatusBar.hide();
  }

  showStatusBar() {
    StatusBar.show();
  }
}
```

## API

<plugin-api name="status-bar"></plugin-api>
