site/docs-md/guides/community.md, before:

---
title: Community Guides
description: Community Guides
url: /docs/guides/community
contributors:
  - dotnetkow
---

# Community Guides

## General

General Capacitor guides and tutorials from the community.

[How to Build an Ionic Chat App with React and Stream &#8250;](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/how-to-build-an-ionic-chat-app-with-react-and-stream-739b67611280)

[Capacitor: Five Apps in Five Minutes &#8250;](https://angularfirebase.com/lessons/capacitor-five-apps-in-five-minutes/)

[Create an Ionic 4 PWA with Capacitor &#8250;](https://blog.jscrambler.com/create-an-ionic-4-pwa-with-capacitor/)

[Capacitor Workflow for iOS and Android Apps &#8250;](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXbRcpsytGQ)

## Integrations

[Using Google Maps and Geolocation in Ionic with Capacitor &#8250;](https://www.joshmorony.com/using-google-maps-and-geolocation-in-ionic-with-capacitor)

[Create Native HTML5 Games with Phaser and Capacitor &#8250;](https://www.joshmorony.com/create-native-html5-games-with-phaser-and-capacitor)

[Integrating the Scanbot SDK in a Capacitor App with Ionic &#8250;](https://scanbot.io/blog/capacitor-app/)

Commit message:

Docs: Add more community guides to APIs and comm guides pages (#1594)

site/docs-md/guides/community.md, after:

---
title: Community Guides
description: Community Guides
url: /docs/guides/community
contributors:
  - dotnetkow
---

# Community Guides

## General

[How to Build an Ionic Chat App with React and Stream &#8250;](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/how-to-build-an-ionic-chat-app-with-react-and-stream-739b67611280)

[Capacitor: Five Apps in Five Minutes &#8250;](https://angularfirebase.com/lessons/capacitor-five-apps-in-five-minutes/)

[Create an Ionic 4 PWA with Capacitor &#8250;](https://blog.jscrambler.com/create-an-ionic-4-pwa-with-capacitor/)

[Capacitor Workflow for iOS and Android Apps &#8250;](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXbRcpsytGQ)

## APIs

[Camera: Building an Ionic Framework Camera App](/docs/guides/ionic-framework-app)

[Network: Ionic 4 and Network Detection with Capacitor &#8250;](https://developer.school/posts/ionic-4-network-detection-with-capacitor/)

[Push Notifications: Using Push Notifications with Firebase in an Ionic Angular App](/docs/guides/push-notifications-firebase)

[Splash Screen: Creating a Dynamic/Adaptable Splash Screen for Capacitor (Android) &#8250;](https://www.joshmorony.com/creating-a-dynamic-universal-splash-screen-for-capacitor-android/)

## Integrations

[Using Google Maps and Geolocation in Ionic with Capacitor &#8250;](https://www.joshmorony.com/using-google-maps-and-geolocation-in-ionic-with-capacitor)

[Create Native HTML5 Games with Phaser and Capacitor &#8250;](https://www.joshmorony.com/create-native-html5-games-with-phaser-and-capacitor)

[Integrating the Scanbot SDK in a Capacitor App with Ionic &#8250;](https://scanbot.io/blog/capacitor-app/)
