site/docs-md/apis/network/index.md, before:

---
title: Network
description: Network API
url: /docs/apis/network
contributors:
  - mlynch
  - jcesarmobile
---

<plugin-platforms platforms="pwa,ios,android,electron"></plugin-platforms>

# Network

The Network API provides events for monitoring network status changes, along with querying the current state of the network.

<plugin-api index="true" name="network"></plugin-api>

## Example

```typescript
import { Plugins } from '@capacitor/core';

const { Network } = Plugins;

let handler = Network.addListener('networkStatusChange', (status) => {
  console.log("Network status changed", status);
});
// To stop listening:
// handler.remove();

// Get the current network status
let status = await Network.getStatus();

// Example output:
{
  "connected": true,
  "connectionType": "wifi"
}
```

## Android Note

The Network API requires the following permission be added to your `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

This permission allows the app to access information about the current network, such as whether it is connected to wifi or cellular.

## API

<plugin-api name="network"></plugin-api>

Commit message:

Docs: Add more community guides to APIs and comm guides pages (#1594)

site/docs-md/apis/network/index.md, after:

---
title: Network
description: Network API
url: /docs/apis/network
contributors:
  - mlynch
  - jcesarmobile
---

<plugin-platforms platforms="pwa,ios,android,electron"></plugin-platforms>

# Network

The Network API provides events for monitoring network status changes, along with querying the current state of the network.

<plugin-api index="true" name="network"></plugin-api>

## Example

```typescript
import { Plugins } from '@capacitor/core';

const { Network } = Plugins;

let handler = Network.addListener('networkStatusChange', (status) => {
  console.log("Network status changed", status);
});
// To stop listening:
// handler.remove();

// Get the current network status
let status = await Network.getStatus();

// Example output:
{
  "connected": true,
  "connectionType": "wifi"
}
```

## Android Note

The Network API requires the following permission be added to your `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

This permission allows the app to access information about the current network, such as whether it is connected to wifi or cellular.

## Example Guides

[Network: Ionic 4 and Network Detection with Capacitor &#8250;](https://developer.school/posts/ionic-4-network-detection-with-capacitor/)

## API

<plugin-api name="network"></plugin-api>
