site/docs-md/basics/workflow.md, before:

# Capacitor Workflow

The Capacitor workflow involves a few consistent tasks:

## 1. Build your Web App

Capacitor turns your web app into a native binary for each platform. Thus, much of your work will consist of building a mobile-focused web app.

You will interact with the native platform underneath using Capacitor's APIs (such as [Camera](../apis/camera)), or by using existing Cordova plugins with Capacitor's [Cordova Compatibility](./cordova).

Additionally, this is where you might use [Ionic](https://ionicframework.com/), so follow your framework's build process in that case.

## 2. Copy your Web Assets

When you are ready to run your app natively on a device or in a simulator, copy your built web assets using

```
npx cap copy
```

## 3. Open your Native IDE

Capacitor uses the Native IDE's to build, simulate, and run your app.

```bash
npx cap open
```

## 4. Periodic Maintenance

Your Capacitor app needs periodic maintenance, such as updating dependencies and installing new plugins.

To update your app's dependencies, run

```bash
npx cap update
```

To install new plugins (including Cordova ones), run

```bash
npm install really-cool-plugin
npx cap update
```

Commit message:

improve workflow docs
- Add "Development" to step 1
- Add example build commands to step 1
- Fix typo and add transition before command

site/docs-md/basics/workflow.md, after:

# Capacitor Workflow

The Capacitor workflow involves a few consistent tasks:

## 1. Develop and build your Web App

Capacitor turns your web app into a native binary for each platform. Thus, much of your work will consist of developing and then building a mobile-focused web app.

You will interact with the native platform underneath using Capacitor's APIs (such as [Camera](../apis/camera)), or by using existing Cordova plugins with Capacitor's [Cordova Compatibility](./cordova).

As a final step you will build your application using a command similar to

```bash
npm run build
```

If you are using a framework, follow your framework's build process. 

If for example you are using [Ionic](https://ionicframework.com/), this would be

```bash
ionic build
```

## 2. Copy your Web Assets

When you are ready to run your app natively on a device or in a simulator, copy your built web assets using

```bash
npx cap copy
```

## 3. Open your Native IDE

Capacitor uses the Native IDEs to build, simulate, and run your app. To open it run

```bash
npx cap open
```

## 4. Periodic Maintenance

Your Capacitor app needs periodic maintenance, such as updating dependencies and installing new plugins.

To update your app's dependencies, run

```bash
npx cap update
```

To install new plugins (including Cordova ones), run

```bash
npm install really-cool-plugin
npx cap update
```
