site/docs-md/getting-started/index.md, before:

# Installing Capacitor

There are two ways to start using Capacitor: adding Capacitor to an existing frontend project (recommended), or starting a fresh project. Capacitor was designed primarily to drop-in to existing frontend projects, but comes with a simple starting project structure if you'd like to start fresh.

Capacitor provides a native mobile runtime and API layer for web apps. It does _not_ come with any specific
set of UI controls which you will most likely need unless you're building a game or something similar.

We strongly recommend starting a Capacitor project with your mobile frontend framework of choice (such as Ionic),
though we also provide a blank starter for apps that aren't using a frontend UI framework, and a starter that uses Ionic and
is ready for building a production-ready native app and Progressive Web App.

## Before you start

Make sure you have all the required [Dependencies](./dependencies) installed for the platforms you will be building for. Most importantly,
make sure you update CocoaPods using `pod repo update` before starting a new project, if you plan on building for iOS using a Mac.


## Adding Capacitor to an existing web app

Capacitor was designed to drop-in to any existing modern JS web app.

To add Capacitor to your web app, run the following commands:

```
cd my-app
npm install --save @capacitor/core @capacitor/cli
```

Then, init Capacitor with your app information. This will also install the default
native platforms.

```
npx cap init
```

This command will prompt you to enter the name of your app, the app id (used primarily as the package for android), and the directory of your app.

Capacitor is now installed in your project 🎉

*Note: `npx` is a new utility available in npm 5 or above that executes local binaries/scripts to avoid global installs.*

## Using Capacitor Starter with Ionic Framework

Integration into the Ionic CLI is coming soon.

For now, create a new ionic app using `ionic start`, then follow the steps above to add
Capacitor to an existing web app (in this case, your new Ionic app).


## Optional: Starting a fresh project

Capacitor comes with a stock project structure if you'd rather start fresh and plan to add a UI/frontend framework separately.

To create it, run:

```
npx @capacitor/cli create
```

This command will prompt you to enter the name of your app, the app id (used primarily as the package for android), and the directory of your app.

This will create a very simple starting app with no UI library that you should nuke before
starting your own app.

## Where to go next

Make sure you have the [Required Dependencies](/docs/getting-started/dependencies) installed, including [PWA Elements](/docs/getting-started/pwa-elements), then proceed to the
[Developer Workflow Guide](/docs/basics/workflow) to learn how Capacitor apps are built.

Commit message:

[Docs] "Getting Started" and "With Ionic" updates (#1472)
* Moved Using with Ionic above PWA Elements page. Updated vanilla web install instructions and added more detail to Ionic install instructions.

site/docs-md/getting-started/index.md, after:

# Installing Capacitor

There are two ways to start using Capacitor: adding Capacitor to an existing frontend project (recommended), or starting a fresh project. Capacitor was designed primarily to drop-in to existing frontend projects, but comes with a simple starting project structure if you'd like to start fresh.

Capacitor provides a native mobile runtime and API layer for web apps. It does _not_ come with any specific
set of UI controls which you will most likely need unless you're building a game or something similar.

We strongly recommend starting a Capacitor project with your mobile frontend framework of choice (such as [Ionic](https://ionicframework.com)).

## Before you start

Make sure you have all the required [Dependencies](./dependencies) installed for the platforms you will be building for. Most importantly,
make sure you update CocoaPods using `pod repo update` before starting a new project, if you plan on building for iOS using a Mac.

## Adding Capacitor to an existing Ionic App

[See here.](/docs/getting-started/with-ionic)

## Adding Capacitor to an existing web app

Capacitor was designed to drop-in to any existing modern JS web app. A valid `package.json` file and a folder containing all web assets are required to get started.

To add Capacitor to your web app, run the following commands:

```
cd my-app
npm install --save @capacitor/core @capacitor/cli
```

Then, initialize Capacitor with your app information.

*Note: `npx` is a new utility available in npm 5 or above that executes local binaries/scripts to avoid global installs.*

```
npx cap init
```

This command will prompt you to enter the name of your app and the app id (the package name for Android and the bundle identifier for iOS). Use the `--web-dir` flag to set the web assets folder (the default is `www`).

Next, install any of the desired native platforms:

```
npx cap add android
npx cap add ios
npx cap add electron
```

🎉 Capacitor is now installed in your project. 🎉

## Optional: Starting a fresh project

Capacitor comes with a stock project structure if you'd rather start fresh and plan to add a UI/frontend framework separately.

To create it, run:

```
npx @capacitor/cli create
```

This command will prompt you to enter the name of your app and the app id (the package name for Android and the bundle identifier for iOS).

This will create a very simple starting app with no UI library.

## Where to go next

Make sure you have the [Required Dependencies](/docs/getting-started/dependencies) installed, including [PWA Elements](/docs/getting-started/pwa-elements), then proceed to the
[Developer Workflow Guide](/docs/basics/workflow) to learn how Capacitor apps are built.
